By now,
we've covered several demos and topics that can actually
help you get started with the CDK.
The last topic I want to cover is how to implement
on interface in the Python CDK.
Now,
this is a little bit special because Java and TypeScript both have
native interface implementation in the language itself.
Python, however, does not have any concept of an interface.
So here, we're actually going to implement an interface called iAspect,
which is just a class that applies a function to
all constructs in a given scope.
Now, there are many use cases for an aspect,
but the use case we're going to follow here is that what if
we want to check if all of our CloudFormation stacks have
termination protection enabled.
So what we're going to do here is we're going to import a jsii library,
which is the library that connects Python to the native CDK code.
Let's just add jsii to the setup.py dependencies and
install these dependencies again. Afterwards,
we can now use jsii annotations in this Python code. So I can specify
here that this class actually implements a jsii interface, and let's
call this class CheckTerminationProtection.
Now, in this class, we're going to define a function called visit,
which is specified in the interface. This visit function, it's what's going
to be applied to all resources in a particular scope.
So in this visit function,
we're going to check if the construct we're visiting is of type stack.
If it's not of type stack, then we just ignore that resource; however,
if it is a stack, then we check if the stack has termination protection enabled.
If it does not,
we just raise a warning that tells us that the stack does
not have termination protection enabled.
So at the end of the code,
let's just call the apply_aspect function and apply the aspect to
all of the resources inside the application. So if we try it out
and let's say deploy the EcsStack,
you notice that it checks the ECSStack and the NetworkStack if it has
termination protection enabled. It won't check the other stack, like
the LambdaStack or the InstancesStack,
because that's not part of the stacks we're deploying.
So that's just how aspects work in general, and this demonstration was just to show you how you would implement interfaces in Python.